Stepped installation guide for error tracking (#12220)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/error-tracking/installation/python.mdx

---
title: Python error tracking installation
---

import { Steps, Step } from 'components/Docs/Steps'

import Tab from "components/Tab"
import DjangoContextMiddleware from '../../libraries/python/_snippets/django-context-middleware.mdx'
import PythonFlaskExceptionAutocapture from '../../libraries/python/_snippets/python-flask-exception-autocapture.mdx'
import PythonFastAPIExceptionAutocapture from '../../libraries/python/_snippets/python-fastapi-exception-autocapture.mdx'

<Steps>
<Step title="Installing PostHog Python SDK" subtitle="Your goal in this step: Install the PostHog Python SDK." badge="required">

```bash
pip install posthog
```

In your app, import the `posthog` library and set your project API key and host **before** making any calls.

```python
from posthog import Posthog

posthog = Posthog('<ph_project_api_key>', host='<ph_client_api_host>')
```

> **Note:** As a rule of thumb, we do not recommend having API keys in plaintext. Setting it as an environment variable is best.

> You can find your project API key and instance address in the [project settings](https://app.posthog.com/project/settings) page in PostHog.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To debug, you can toggle debug mode:

```python
posthog.debug = True
```

To make sure no calls happen during tests, you can disable PostHog, like so:

```python
if settings.TEST:
    posthog.disabled = True

> ```

Reviewer: I don't fully understand why this is relevant here. It's a bit useful but probably less than everything else on the page. I'd remove tbh, especially since you verify being going in-app.

</Step>

<Step checkpoint title="Verify PostHog is initialized" subtitle="Confirm you can capture events with PostHog">

> Before proceeding, enable debug and call `posthog.capture('test_event')` to make sure you can capture events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before proceeding, enable debug and capture a test event to make sure you can capture events.

```python
posthog.debug = True
posthog.capture('test_event')
```

```
